name	description	region	lookup_charity_code_id	featured	top_recommended	syw_altkey	temp_icon_filename
"""I Have a Dream"" Foundation"	"Founded in 1986 by businessman Eugene M. Lang, the ""I Have A Dream"" Foundation empowers children in low-income communities to achieve higher education and fulfill their leadership potential by providing them with guaranteed tuition support and equipping them with the skills, knowledge, and habits they need to gain entry to higher education and succeed in college and beyond. By helping our Dreamers gain access to college, we are putting our Dreamers on a different academic and life trajectory. We sponsor entire grade levels of 50-100 students in under-resourced public schools or housing developments and work with these Dreamers from early elementary school all the way through high school. Upon high school graduation, each Dreamer receives guaranteed tuition assistance for higher education."	Arizona	2	0	0	10156	IHaveADreamFoundation.gif
Advocates for Children of New York	"Advocates for Children (AFC) of New York promotes access to the best education New York can provide for all students, especially students of color and students from low-income backgrounds. We use uniquely integrated strategies to advance systemic reform, empower families and communities, and advocate for the educational rights of individual students. Our services include individual case advocacy, a helpline to assist parents and professionals, and workshops."	New York	6	0	1	10130	AdvocatesForChildrenofNewYork.jpeg
ALSAC - St. Jude Children's Research Hospital	"ALSAC (American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities) was founded in 1957 and exists for the sole purpose of raising funds to support the operating and maintenance of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. The mission of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital is to find cures for children with cancer and other catastrophic diseases through research and treatment. It is supported primarily by donations raised by ALSAC. Research efforts are directed at understanding the molecular, genetic and chemical bases of catastrophic diseases in children; identifying cures for such diseases; and promoting their prevention. Research is focused specifically on cancers, some acquired and inherited immunodeficiencies, sickle cell disease, infectious diseases and genetic disorders."	Ohio	7	0	1	10125	ALSACSt. JudesChildrensResearchHospital.jpg
Alex's Lemonade Stand	tbd		7	0	1	10178	AlexsLemonadeStand.jpg
America SCORES	"America SCORES empowers students in urban communities using soccer, writing, creative expression, and service-learning. With teamwork as the unifying value, we inspire youth to lead healthy lifestyles, be engaged students, and become agents of change in their communities. We develop programs that use the world's most popular sport, soccer, to energize and inspire public school students. All of our programs require that our children use the teamwork they learn on the soccer field to support each other as poets and authors in the classroom. The combination is unique and it works. Every day, SCORES programs are creating a bond between thousands of our students and their classmates, their teachers, their schools and their communities."	Pennsylvania	10	0	1	10131	AmericaSCORES.jpg
American Cancer Society	"Founded in 1913 by 15 well-known doctors and business leaders in New York City, the American Cancer Society (ACS) is the nationwide community-based voluntary health organization dedicated to eliminating cancer as a major health problem by preventing cancer, saving lives, and diminishing suffering from cancer, through research, education, advocacy, and service. The American Cancer Society consists of a National Home Office with 13 chartered Divisions throughout the United States and a presence in most communities. More than two million volunteers carry out the Society's mission of eliminating cancer and improving quality of life for those individuals facing the disease."	National (U.S.)	5	1	1	10105	AmericanCancerSociety.jpg
American Foundation for Disabled Children	"Founded in 1991, the American Foundation for Disabled Children works to encourage and maximize the development, productively, dignity and social interaction of challenged and disadvantaged children within society at large. Our programs include: resources for homeless and challenged children; Braille and large print books for the visually challenged; and camps and outdoor experiences."	Ohio	8	0	1	10132	AmericanFoundationForDisabledChildren.gif
American Red Cross	"Since its founding in 1881 by visionary leader Clara Barton, the American Red Cross has been the nation's premier emergency response organization. As part of a worldwide movement that offers neutral humanitarian care to the victims of war, the American Red Cross distinguishes itself by also aiding victims of devastating natural disasters. Over the years, the organization has expanded its services, always with the aim of preventing and relieving suffering. Today, in addition to domestic disaster relief, the American Red Cross offers compassionate services in five other areas: community services that help the needy; support and comfort for military members and their families; the collection, processing and distribution of lifesaving blood and blood products; educational programs that promote health and safety; and international relief and development programs."	National (U.S.)	1	1	1	10101	AmericanRedCross.jpg
Association to Benefit Children	"Association to Benefit Children (ABC) is dedicated to bringing joy and warmth to disadvantaged children and their families through compassionate, sustainable, comprehensive and integrated services, designed to permanently break the cycles of abuse, neglect, sickness and homelessness. ABC's humane and innovative programs include early educational advocacy, housing assistance, mental health services, family support and preservation, crisis intervention, therapeutic out-of-school and summer day camp programs, youth leadership development and mentoring."	Ohio	9	0	1	10133	AssociationToBenefitChildren.jpg
Baby Buggy	"Baby Buggy is dedicated to providing New York City's (NYC) families in need with essential equipment, clothing, and products for their infants and young children. Since 2001, Baby Buggy has delivered over 3,500,000 essential items to thousands of families through our network of over 50 qualified social service partners. Today, over 500,000 children live in poverty in NYC. Baby Buggy's goal is to help them access the essentials they need to ensure their safety and well-being. By providing concrete resources to their families through our network of social service professionals, we help alleviate the stress of living in poverty, and we help prevent crisis."	New York	3	0	1	10123	BabyBuggy.jpg
Big Brothers Big Sisters of America	"Big Brothers Big Sisters, the nation's largest donor and volunteer supported mentoring network, holds itself accountable for children in its program to achieve measurable outcomes, including educational success; avoidance of risky behaviors; and higher aspirations, greater confidence and better relationships. Partnering with parents/guardians, schools, corporations and others in the community, Big Brothers Big Sisters carefully pairs children (""Littles"") with screened volunteer mentors (""Bigs"") and monitors and supports these one-to-one mentoring matches in building safe, enduring relationships. The first-ever Big Brothers Big Sisters Youth Outcomes Summary, released in 2012, substantiates that its mentoring programs have proven, positive academic, socio-emotional and behavioral outcomes for youth, areas linked to high school graduation, avoidance of juvenile delinquency and college or job readiness."	National (U.S.)	11	0	1	10135	BigBrothersBigSistersOfAmerica.jpg
Big Brothers Big Sisters of NYC	"Formed in 1904, Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City (BBBS NYC) provide mentors to all children who need caring adult role models - special friends who can help expand their horizons, realize their potential and enrich their futures - changing their lives. We seek to train community organizations in every neighborhood, empowering them to establish their own mentoring programs. BBBS NYC offers unique programs, tailored to fit the needs of a diverse pool of youth, including teenage mothers, children with developmental disabilities, or new Americans, as well as a diverse pool of volunteers, including corporate employees and seniors. BBBS NYC remains committed to expanding services, developing ideas, and making history, until every boy and girl who needs a mentor has a Big of his or her own."	New York	8	0	1	10134	BigBrothersBigSistersofNYC.jpg
Camp Good Days and Special Times	"Founded in 1979, Camp Good Days and Special Times is dedicated to improving the quality of life for children, adults and families whose lives have been touched by cancer and other life challenges. All of the programs and services provided by Camp Good Days are offered free of charge for the participants. Camp Good Days provides residential camping programs at our beautiful recreational facility, located on the shores of Keuka Lake in Branchport, New York, as well as year-round recreational and support activities, in the Rochester, Buffalo & Syracuse, New York and Central Florida areas for the entire family. At Camp Good Days, participants have the opportunity to regain some of what cancer, sickle cell anemia, HIV/AIDS, or violence has taken away from them."	Maine	15	0	1	10136	CARE.jpg
CARE	"Founded in 1945, CARE is a leading humanitarian organization fighting global poverty. Our mission is to serve individuals and families in the poorest communities in the world. Drawing strength from our global diversity, resources and experience, we promote innovative solutions and are advocates for global responsibility. We facilitate lasting change by: strengthening capacity for self-help; providing economic opportunity; delivering relief in emergencies; influencing policy decisions at all levels; and addressing discrimination in all its forms. We place special focus on working alongside poor women because, equipped with the proper resources, women have the power to help whole families and entire communities escape poverty."	National (U.S.)	9	0	1	10109	CampGoodDaysAndSpecialTimes.jpg
Center for Arts Education	"Established in 1996, the Center for Arts Education (CAE) is committed to stimulating and sustaining quality arts education as an essential part of every child's education in the New York City public schools. CAE provides information and resources that demonstrate the benefits of and need for arts education as part of a quality, balanced education. CAE also identifies and supports exemplary partnerships and programs that demonstrate how the arts contribute to learning and student achievement. CAE is dedicated to influencing educational and fiscal policies that will support arts education in all of the city's public schools."	Maine	12	0	1	10137	CenterForArtsEducation.jpg
Chess-in-the-Schools	"Chess-in-the-Schools is dedicated to improving academic performance and building self-esteem among inner-city public school children. Since 1986, Chess-in-the-Schools has taught, inspired, and empowered more than 450,000 students in New York City public schools. All schools served by Chess-in-the-Schools are classified as Title I. In these schools, more than 40% of the students are eligible for free or reduced cost lunch (an indicator of socio-economic disadvantage.) Through structured classroom, after-school, weekend, and summer programs, we use chess as an educational tool to promote learning and to help young people develop skills in critical thinking and problem solving."	Maine	13	0	0	10138	ChessInTheSchools.jpg
Childhood Leukemia Foundation	"Founded in 1992, the mission of the Childhood Leukemia Foundation (CLF) is to lift the spirit and enhance the quality of life of children suffering with cancer. Our goal is to make sure children battling cancer know they are not alone. All of our programs have been designed to: educate and entertain; provide a sense of physical normalcy and help raise self esteem; encourage physical participation and therapeutic play; maintain a communications lifeline; and provide care management tools. CLF works with more than 140 specialized treatment centers. The organization serves over 15,000 children nationwide with free program and service offerings for childhood cancer patients and their families."	Ohio	3	0	0	10142	ChildhoodLeukemiaFoundation.jpeg
Children for Children	"Children for Children (CFC) was founded in 1996 by parents concerned that many New York City children were growing up without meaningful, accessible opportunities to become engaged in their greater community from an early age despite the powerful individual and societal benefits afforded by youth service. CFC fosters community involvement and social responsibility in young people, offers opportunities for young people from preschool through high school to grow involved, through hands-on service and philanthropy programs that teach the value of volunteering and giving. CFC's programs accommodate a wide range of ages, abilities, interests and busy schedules just right for kids, families, schools, educators and other community youth organizations."	Maine	15	0	0	10139	ChildrenForChildren(Generation On).jpeg
Children's Brain Tumor Foundation	"Children's Brain Tumor Foundation was founded in 1988 by dedicated parents, physicians and friends. Our mission is to improve the treatment, quality of life and the long term outlook for children with brain and spinal cord tumors through research, support, education, and advocacy to families and survivors. Knowledge is critical for families to access expert care and ensure quality of life. Our free publication 'A Resource Guide for Parents of Children with Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors' is now in its fourth edition, and is full of practical information to sort out the complexities of medical procedures, interruptions in school and social life, and uncertainty about the future. We also offer a toll-free support line, parent to parent network, and we host and sponsor events which offer families fun while building relationships within the community."	Maine	14	0	0	10140	ChildrensBrainTumorFoundation.jpg
Children's Cancer & Blood Foundation	"The Children's Cancer and Blood Foundation (CCBF), through its support of the Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology at the New York - Presbyterian Hospital Weill Cornell Medical Center, has created a standard of excellence in the treatment of children with chronic, life-threatening blood disorders since 1952. Children and their families receive the most advanced, comprehensive care provided by a team of pediatric specialists in an atmosphere of compassion, hope and wellness. Since our founding, CCBF funding has helped revolutionize the treatment of children suffering from cancers and childhood blood disorders."	Ohio	10	0	0	10141	ChildrensCancerAndBloodFoundation.jpg
Children's Museum of Manhattan	"The mission of the Children's Museum of Manhattan (CMOM) is to inspire children and families to learn about themselves and our culturally diverse world through a unique environment of interactive exhibitions and programs. Last year, CMOM served more than 350,000 people, which included 65,000 children who visited the Museum as part of a school group or through one of the Museum's off-site partners. CMOM is committed to making its exhibits and programs available to all, and with nearly 50 sites around New York City, we continually reach thousands of families who might not otherwise be able to benefit from our services. CMOM's four priority areas are meant to impact children in ways that will last a lifetime: early childhood education; creativity in the arts and sciences; healthy lifestyles; and the exploration of world cultures."	New York	9	0	0	10143	ChildrensMuseumOfManhattan.jpg
Children's Rights	"Children's Rights is a national advocacy group working to reform America's failing child welfare systems on behalf of the abused and neglected children who depend on them for protection. Since 1995, Children's Rights has been fighting to enshrine in the law of the land every child's right to be protected from abuse and neglect and to grow up in a safe, stable, permanent home. Through tough legal action complemented by substantive policy expertise, we have won landmark victories and brought about sweeping improvements in the lives of abused and neglected children in more than a dozen states across the nation."	Idaho	2	0	0	10144	ChildrensRights.jpg
Children's Scholarship Fund	"Founded in 1998, the Children's Scholarship Fund (CSF) provides partial tuition assistance for low-income families to send their children to private schools. Currently, almost 25,500 children nationwide are using CSF scholarships. These children are attending private school through the generosity of our donors, the efforts of 29 scholarship programs, and the sacrifices made by the families themselves, who pay, on average, 50% of their children's tuition. CSF provides scholarships for children grades Kindergarten - 8th grade. The Fund focuses on elementary education because the earlier a child receives sound schooling, the better. Scholarships are awarded to all eligible children in a family to attend the school or schools of their choice."	Idaho	8	0	0	10145	ChildrensScholarshipFund.png
Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation	"The Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation is dedicated to curing spinal cord injury by funding innovative research, and improving the quality of life for people living with paralysis through grants, information and advocacy. In 1995, when Christopher Reeve was injured, the American Paralysis Association (APA) was one of the first places that he and Dana turned to. Christopher had formed his own foundation, but in 1999, they came together as the Christopher Reeve Foundation. Today, the Foundation is recognized as the premier spinal cord injury research organization throughout the world. Through the Reeve Foundation's persistence and promise, neuroscientists around the world agree that repairing the damaged spinal cord is not a question of if, but a question of when."	National (U.S.)	18	0	1	10118	ChristopherAndDanaReeveFoundation.jpg
"Classroom, Inc."	"Classroom, Inc.'s innovative curriculum engages students with the greatest needs and helps them develop academic skills essential for success in school and the workplace. Since 1991, our programs have been in over 700 sites in 15 states, and we have served over 600,000 students. Classroom, Inc.'s content-rich instructional programs turn classrooms into learning environments that motivate students through innovative teaching methods and materials based on the idea that young people learn better when they are compelled by their work. We develop computer software simulations that place students in virtual workplaces, create print curriculum materials corresponding to each simulation, and provide a comprehensive professional development program that helps teachers to effectively integrate our curriculum into their classroom instruction."	Idaho	14	0	0	10146	ClassroomInc..jpg
Computers for Youth	"Founded in 1999, Computers for Youth (CFY) is a national educational organization dedicated to improving the home learning environment of low-income school children. Our work is built on the belief that the home holds the greatest untapped potential for improving children's academic and life-long success. CFY partners with schools to improve the educational resources available in children's homes, enhance parent-child interaction around learning and help teachers make powerful links between the classroom and the home. Our computer-based home learning centers are designed by software experts and tested by students and education executives from around the country. Since beginning operations in 1999, CFY has served more than 20,000 families."	Idaho	12	0	0	10147	ComputersForYouth.png
Disabled American Veterans Charitable Serivce Trust	"The Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Charitable Service Trust supports physical and psychological rehabilitation programs, meets the special needs of veterans with specific disabilities - such as amputation and blindness - and aids and shelters homeless veterans. Programs supported by the Trust target several groups of physically and psychologically disabled veterans. Key programs include: helping to maintain a volunteer-operated transportation network providing rides to sick and disabled veterans needing transportation to and from VA medical centers for treatment; providing food and shelter and connecting homeless and needy veterans to essential medical care, VA benefits counseling and job training; supporting significant therapeutic initiatives; and many more."	National (U.S.)	10	0	1	10110	DisabledAmericanVeteransCharitable Service Trust.jpg
Do Something	"Do Something believes young people have the power to make a difference. It is our aim to inspire, support and celebrate a generation of do-ers: people who see the need to do something, believe in their ability to get it done, and then take action. Our website is a community where young people learn, listen, speak, vote, volunteer, ask, and take action to make the world a better place. Currently, only 23% of this generation actively volunteers. Our hope is to create a do something generation: a world where more than 51% of young people are involved with community action."	Idaho	1	0	0	10148	DoSomething.jpg
"Doctors Without Borders, USA"	"Doctors Without Borders, USA (DWB-USA) was founded in 1990 in New York City to raise funds, create awareness, recruit field staff, and advocate with the United Nations and US government on humanitarian concerns. Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) is an international medical humanitarian organization that provides aid in nearly 60 countries to people whose survival is threatened by violence, neglect, or catastrophe, primarily due to armed conflict, epidemics, malnutrition, exclusion from health care, or natural disasters. In 2007, MSF-USA raised $152.1 million and sent 200 aid workers to work overseas."	National (U.S.)	3	1	1	10103	DoctorsWithoutBorders.jpg
DonorsChoose	"Founded in 2000, DonorsChoose allows citizen philanthropists to fund specific project requests from teachers in U.S. public schools. We make it personal: donors choose a project that moves them, and then they hear back from the classroom with photos and updates. DonorsChoose validates the project request and purchases the resources for the teacher. To date, we have funded over 90,000 classroom projects to bring learning alive for students, providing more than two million children with books, technology, supplies, funding for field trips or class visitors, and other resources. Our vision is of a nation where students in every community have the resources they need to learn."	Pennsylvania	7	0	0	10149	DonorsChoose.jpg
East Harlem Tutorial Program	"Since its pioneering establishment in 1958, East Harlem Tutorial Program (EHTP) has been one of the most successful after-school educational programs in New York. Recognizing that each child has unique talents and learning styles, EHTP's After School Program relies on the interaction of parents, teachers and children in promoting literacy-based educational enrichment and personal development activities for enrollees between the ages of five and twenty-one. As a vital East Harlem education and enrichment center, EHTP works with children from early childhood through adulthood to ensure that they have the resources needed to access opportunities for academic, social and career advancement while fully engaging parents and caregivers in their children's development"	New York	10	0	0	10150	EastHarlemTutorialProgram.jpg
Family to Family	"Family-to-Family (F-to-F) is a tax-exempt 501(c)(3), non-profit national hunger relief organization. We are dedicated to connecting, one-to-one, families with “more” to impoverished American families with profoundly less. Our program creates a bridge between communities with enough to share, and some of our country's poorest areas"	Arizona	6	0	0	10177	FamilyToFamily.jpg
Feed the Children	"Feed The Children is a Christian, international relief organization that delivers food, medicine, clothing and other necessities to individuals, children and families who lack these essentials due to famine, war, poverty or natural disaster. Since our founding in 1979, we have grown into one of the world's largest private organizations dedicated to helping hungry and hurting people. Last year, Feed The Children shipped 133 million pounds of food and other essentials to children and families in all 50 states and around the world. A key goal is to help families in need move past needing help and into becoming self-sufficient members of their community."	National (U.S.)	8	0	1	10108	FeedTheChildren.jpg
Food For the Poor	"Food For The Poor (FFP) ministers to spiritually renew impoverished people throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. Established in 1982, FFP's goals are to improve the health, economic, social and spiritual conditions of the men, women and children we serve. Food For The Poor raises funds and provides direct relief assistance to the poor, usually by purchasing specifically requested materials and distributing them through the churches and charity organizations already operating in areas of need. Since its founding FFP has distributed more than 48,000 tractor-trailer loads of aid to the poor. We have also built more than 55,000 housing units for people desperately in need of adequate shelter, and completed more than 750 water projects that provide lifesaving water and sanitation to hundreds of thousands of villagers in need."	North Carolina	15	0	1	10124	FoodForThePoor.jpg
Fresh Youth Initiatives	"Recognizing that young people in Washington Heights lack safe, structured, and engaging ways to spend time in the non-school hours of the day, Fresh Youth Initiatives (FYI) was launched in 1993 as a community-based youth development organization. FYI's mission is to support and encourage young people in Washington Heights to design and carry out community service projects, develop leadership skills, fulfill their potential and realize their dreams. Participants in FYI clean parks, paint murals, volunteer in community gardens, make and distribute homemade sleeping bags for the homeless, and volunteer in our own youth-run, adult facilitated food pantry, The Helping Hands Food Pantry, among other things."	New York	10	0	0	10152	FreshYouthInitiatives.jpg
Friends of Karen	"Founded in 1978, Friends of Karen provides emotional, financial and advocacy support to children with life-threatening illnesses and their families. Friends of Karen achieves its mission by providing direct financial assistance with medical care, illness-related expenses and household expenses that families cannot afford due to loss of income as a result of their child's illness; serving as an advocate for the children and their families before government and private agencies; investigating resources available to the children and their families; offering bereavement support for parents who have lost a child and for siblings who have lost a brother or sister; assisting families through the difficult maze of health insurance problem; and acting as a referral source and providing guidance to families with ill children outside our guidelines."	New York	1	0	1	10122	FriendsOfKaren.jpg
Fund for Public Schools	"The Fund for Public Schools works to attract private investment in school reform and to encourage greater involvement of all New Yorkers in the education of our children. This includes working to secure critical funding for system-wide education reform initiatives; facilitating strategic public-private partnerships; managing a targeted set of programs to support city schools; and building city-wide public awareness. In 2002 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Chancellor Joel I. Klein established public-private partnerships as a critical means of supporting public education reform, and The Fund is the primary vehicle for advancing this effort. The Fund has secured unprecedented investment, raising more than $230 million for system-wide reforms and initiatives that support individual schools."	Pennsylvania	8	0	0	10153	FundForPublicSchools.jpg
Girls Inc.	"Girls Inc. is a national youth organization dedicated to inspiring all girls to be strong, smart, and bold. With roots dating to 1864, Girls Inc. has provided vital educational programs to millions of American girls, particularly those in high-risk, underserved areas. Today, innovative programs help girls confront subtle societal messages about their value and potential, and prepare them to lead successful, independent, and fulfilling lives. Programs based on research gathered at the Girls Inc. National Resource Center encourage girls ages 6-18 to take risks and master physical, intellectual, and emotional challenges. Programs are offered through a network of 1,000 sites nationwide and are facilitated by trained professional staff."	Colorado	15	0	0	10154	GirlsInc..jpg
Habitat For Humanity - New York City	"Founded in 1984 as an independent affiliate of Habitat for Humanity International, Habitat for Humanity - New York City builds in the five boroughs of New York City. We complete about 25 houses a year. We build the homes with the sweat equity of our family partner homeowners who work side-by-side with volunteers. In addition to building homes, Habitat-NYC is a leading advocate for affordable housing. Our goal is to ensure that every New Yorker has a decent, affordable home, by creating a social movement to end the housing crisis plaguing New York City and by calling on elected officials to make affordable housing a priority."	New York	4	0	1	10128	HabitatForHumanity.jpg
Habitat For Humanity International	"Founded in 1976, Habitat for Humanity International (HFHI) is an ecumenical Christian housing ministry. HFHI seeks to eliminate poverty housing and homelessness from the world, and to make decent shelter a matter of conscience and action. Habitat invites people of all backgrounds, races and religions to build houses together in partnership with families in need. Habitat has built more than 300,000 houses around the world, providing more than 1.5 million people in more than 3,000 communities with safe, decent, affordable shelter. Habitat is founded on the conviction that every man, woman and child should have a simple, decent, affordable place to live in dignity and safety."	Global	9	0	1	10129	HabitatForHumanity.jpg
Harlem Children's Zone	"Harlem Children's Zone (HCZ) is an innovative and unique community-based organization, offering education, social-service and community-building programs to children and families since 1970. HCZ has experienced incredible growth - from the number of children we serve to the breadth of our services. But one thing has stayed the same: the agency's whatever it takes attitude when it comes to helping children to succeed. Today, HCZ continues to offer innovative, efficiently run programs that are aimed at doing nothing less than breaking the cycle of generational poverty for the thousands of children and families it serves. All HCZ programs are offered free to the children and families of Harlem."	Colorado	16	0	0	10155	HarlemChildrensZone.jpg
iMentor	"iMentor's mission is to improve the lives of young people from underserved communities through innovative, technology-based approaches to mentoring. Over the past ten years, iMentor has transformed over 20,000 lives. iMentor cultivates relationships between young people and volunteer adult mentors through an innovative combination of e-mail correspondence and in-person meetings. To-date, iMentor has matched over 10,000 mentor-mentee pairs, partnering with 30 NYC schools and after school programs in four of New York City's five boroughs and programs all over the country through iMentor Interactive. iMentor's vision is that one day, all youth will be connected to adult role models who motivate and guide them through high school and college graduation."	Pennsylvania	9	0	0	10157	iMentor.jpg
Inner-City Scholorship Fund	"Inner-City Scholarship Fund (ICSF), a not-for-profit organization, was founded in 1971 by the late Terence Cardinal Cooke and a group of prominent New York executives from many religious backgrounds. ICSF seeks to provide tuition assistance to students from low-income families who wish to attend inner-city Catholic schools within the Archdiocese of New York, thus making values-based Catholic education a viable choice for children of all faiths. Through the generosity of its volunteers, ICSF is also able to supplement the education received with a variety of enrichment programs to benefit these children and the schools they attend."	Illinois	19	0	0	10158	InnerCityScholarshipFund.jpg
Invisible Children	"The story of Invisible Children (IC) began in 2003, when three young filmmakers traveled to East Africa and filmed a documentary, Invisible Children: The Rough Cut, about the ongoing civil war and child soldier phenomenon in northern Uganda. Upon showing this documentary in the United States, the story of the child soldiers sparked a youth-oriented grassroots movement driven by the desire to transform apathy into activism.This movement led to the establishment of Invisible Children, Inc. as a registered 501(c)3 in 2005. IC's programs include educational and microeconomic initiatives in Central Africa benefitting over 11,000 people as well as biannual tours, awareness events, and fundraising campaigns stateside. Recently, IC has expanded its operations to Central Africa to address the plight of the most recent victims of the LRA's reign of terror who live in some of the most remote regions of the world."	National (U.S.)	4	1	1	10104	InvisibleChildren.jpg
Joe Torre Safe At Home Foundation	"The Joe Torre Safe At Home Foundation was founded in 2002 by Ali and Joe Torre to educate children to end the cycle of domestic violence and save lives. The Foundation aims to educate children about the issue of domestic violence. In 2005, the Foundation opened its first school-based programming initiative, Margaret's Place, at Hostos-Lincoln Academy, Bronx, NY. Margaret's Place, a tribute to his mom, is a comprehensive program which provides students with a safe room in school where they can meet with a professional counselor trained in domestic-violence intervention and prevention. Currently there are ten fully funded and operational Margaret's Places in New York City and Westchester County."	Illinois	20	0	0	10159	JoeTorreSafeAtHomeFoundation.png
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International	"The Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International (JDRF) is the leader in research leading to a cure for type 1 diabetes in the world. It sets the global agenda for diabetes research, and is the largest charitable funder and advocate of diabetes science worldwide. The mission of JDRF is to find a cure for diabetes and its complications through the support of research. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease that strikes children and adults suddenly, and can be fatal. Since its founding in 1970 by parents of children with type 1 diabetes, JDRF has awarded more than $1.3 billion to diabetes research, including more than $156 million in FY2008."	National (U.S.)	20	0	1	10120	JuvenileDiabetesResearchFoundation International.jpg
K.I.D.S.	"K.I.D.S. (Kids in Distressed Situations) was founded in 1985 to assist children suffering from famine in Ethiopia. From the initial efforts of a small group of children's industry leaders, the organization has grown into a global charity dedicated to alleviating poverty conditions among children and assisting in relief efforts following major disasters. K.I.D.S. brings hope and self-esteem to children in need and their families by providing new clothes, shoes, toys, furniture, books and juvenile products through a network of more than a thousand local social service agencies. These agencies serve youth in poverty-stricken communities through homeless shelters, foster-care facilities, hospitals, relief organizations, food banks and other programs in the U.S. and abroad."	Pennsylvania	4	0	0	10160	K.I.D.S..png
Keep a Child Alive	"Keep a Child Alive is dedicated to providing life-saving anti-retroviral treatment, care and support services to children and families whose lives have been affected by HIV/AIDS in Africa and India by directly engaging the global public in the fight against AIDS. What started as a very personal incident between two mothers has become a tremendous initiative for change. With over 4,000 children and family members on ARV treatment, over 250,000 people under our care, three orphanages receiving funding, and major clinic sites in expansion, Keep a Child Alive is making a direct impact in the lives of so many who need help."	New Jersey	15	0	0	10161	KeepAChildAlive.jpg
Lance Armstron Foundation	"The Lance Armstrong Foundation (LAF) believes that in the battle with cancer, unity is strength, knowledge is power and attitude is everything. Founded in 1997 by cancer survivor and champion cyclist, Lance Armstrong, the LAF inspires and empowers people with cancer. We provide the practical information and tools people with cancer need to live life on their own terms. We take aim at the gaps between what is known and what is done to prevent suffering and death due to cancer. We unite people to fight cancer and pursue an agenda focused on: prevention, access to screening and care, improvement of the quality of life for cancer survivors, and investment in research."	National (U.S.)	17	0	1	10117	LanceArmstrongFoundation.jpg
Learning Leaders	"Founded in 1956 as the New York City School Volunteer Program, Learning Leaders was the first program of its kind in the country and served as a model for developing school volunteer programs in other major cities. Learning Leaders has grown to become the largest school volunteer and parent engagement program in the city and a valued partner of the New York City Department of Education. Learning Leaders has helped students succeed by providing individualized instructional support through the implementation of the Fundamental Program, essentially the one-on-one tutoring model. This program establishes volunteers to assist with reading, writing, ESL, math and other academic activities. Learning Leaders recruits, trains and supports up to 10,000 school volunteers who work with over 230,000 students."	Illinois	18	0	0	10162	LearningLeaders.jpg
"Literacy, Inc."	"Literacy, Inc. (LINC), founded in 1996, is based on two beliefs: all children can read given enough one-on-one support and every neighborhood has strengths and resources that can be coordinated to support early literacy. LINC works with communities to: develop a dynamic and sustainable network of community activities that achieve unified literacy success; help organizations, community leaders and others to understand the many ways they can support young children as readers; encourage families and other community members to be increasingly engaged as reading partners to young children; create a perceptible shift in the community belief that all its neighborhood children will read on time with community support; and ensure a literacy rich community that will contribute to the success of children entering school by ensuring that they are ready to learn and read on time."	Arizona	4	0	0	10163	LiteracyInc..png
Little Kids Rock	"Founded in 1996, Little Kids Rock (LKR) believes that all children in our public schools deserve music education. LKR knows that music is a critical component of a first-rate education. We inspire children to express themselves through music, building the creativity, confidence, and self-esteem that are critical to success in school and beyond. We accomplish this by: pioneering innovative teaching methods that are rooted in children's knowledge of popular music forms such as rock, rap, blues, hip-hop etc; preparing practitioners such as teachers and youth workers to offer classes utilizing our methods and materials; and providing free musical instruments and trained instructors to children, especially to those children who do not receive music education."	Arkansas	9	0	1	10127	LittleKidsRock.jpg
Make-A-Wish Foundation of America	"The Make-A-Wish Foundation grants the wishes of children with life-threatening medical conditions to enrich the human experience with hope, strength and joy. Based in Phoenix, the Foundation is one of the world's leading children's charities, serving children in every community in the United States, its territories, and in 47 countries on five continents. With the help of generous donors and more than 30,000 volunteers worldwide, the Make-A-Wish Foundation grants a wish somewhere around the world every 23 minutes. It has granted more than 280,000 wishes since its inception in 1980. Visit the Make-A-Wish Foundation at www.wish.org and discover how you can share the power of a wish®."	National (U.S.)	12	0	1	10112	MakeAWishFoundationOfAmerica.jpg
March of Dimes	"President Franklin Roosevelt established the March of Dimes in 1938. March of Dimes has saved the lives of millions of babies since our founding. And we won't stop until we reach the day when every baby is born healthy. The mission of the March of Dimes is to improve the health of babies by preventing birth defects and infant mortality. We carry out this mission through research, community services, education and advocacy to save babies' lives. March of Dimes researchers, volunteers, educators, outreach workers and advocates work together to give all babies a fighting chance against the threats to their health: prematurity, birth defects, and low birthweight."	Pennsylvania	14	0	0	10164	MarchOfDimes.jpg
Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research	"The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research is dedicated to finding a cure for Parkinson's disease within the decade through an aggressively funded research agenda and to ensuring the development of improved therapies for those living with Parkinson's today. For The Michael J. Fox Foundation, there is one clear measure of success: delivering patients better treatments and, ultimately, a cure for Parkinson's disease. We've developed a targeted approach to research funding that helps us identify and prioritize the patient-relevant science that will allow us to reach our goal. Since we began in 2000, the Foundation has funded over $149 million in Parkinson's research, either directly or through partnerships."	National (U.S.)	16	0	1	10116	MichaelJFoxFoundationForParkinson's Research.jpg
National Children's Leukemia Foundation	"The National Children's Leukemia Foundation (NCLF) is one of the leading organizations in the fight against leukemia and cancer for children and adults. The mission of the NCLF is to provide the cure for cancer and other life-threatening diseases throughout the world, and to insure that all persons, regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, gender, socioeconomic status or country of residence, have access to life-saving medical care. The NCLF supports medical research and direct patient care programs that ease the financial, social and psychological burdens of families with a diagnosis of cancer or other serious blood disorders. Through our hotline, we offer comprehensive information to any caller, and provide referrals for initial testing, physicians, hospital admissions, and treatment options."	New Jersey	17	0	0	10165	NYCOutwardBoundCenter.jpg
New Yorkers For Children	"There are 17,000 young people in foster care in New York City, and many of them face unique and complex challenges in their efforts to become successful, self-sufficient adults. Much is needed that cannot be provided by government funding, and New Yorkers For Children (NYFC) has become a valuable resource and support system for these youth. Founded in 1996 by former Commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services Nicholas Scoppetta as the non-profit partner to Children's Services, NYFC strives to enrich the lives of young people in foster care as they strive for success. Over the past 12 years, donations from individuals, corporations, and foundations have enabled us to reach these youth through scholarships, mentoring, financial literacy training, networking opportunities, and the support needed to succeed in college."	New York	1	0	0	10166	NationalChildrensLeukemiaFoundation.gif
NYC Outward Bound Center	"Founded in 1987, NYC Outward Bound Center is the first independent urban Outward Bound Center in the United States. Our organization traces its roots to 1941, when Outward Bound was founded by the well-known European educator Kurt Hahn. NYC Outward Bound programs are transformational. In New York City, we focus primarily on bringing our educational approach to City youth where they live, reaching them mainly through their public schools. Our educational method is called Expeditionary Learning (EL). It is used successfully in schools nationwide, and is achievement-oriented. Through EL, students reach higher levels than they ever thought possible. Academic learning connects to students' own experiences, and to real-world issues and concerns."	New York	3	0	0	10167	NewYorkersForChildren.gif
Parazlyzed Veterans of America	"Founded in 1946, Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) is the only congressionally chartered veterans service organization dedicated solely to serving the needs of veterans with spinal cord injury or spinal cord dysfunction (SCI/D). PVA has developed a unique expertise on a wide variety of issues involving the special needs of our members - veterans of the armed forces who have experienced SCI/D. PVA uses that expertise to be the leading advocate for: quality health care for our members; research and education addressing SCI/D; benefits available as a result of our members' military service; and civil rights and opportunities which maximize the independence of our members."	National (U.S.)	15	0	1	10115	ParalyzedVeteransOfAmerica.jpg
Pinwheel Project	"The Pinwheel Project is a non-profit, 501(c)(3) children’s charity whose mission is to ensure that no child or family ever feels hopeless or alone during the ordeal of a pediatric hospital stay. The practical help and emotional support, which we provide at no cost, is designed to create an atmosphere that promotes healing."	National (U.S.)	21	0	1	10121	PinwheelProject.gif
Ronald McDonald House of New York	"Founded in 1978, the Ronald McDonald House of New York provides temporary housing for pediatric cancer patients and their families. Here families find a strong, supportive and caring environment which encourages and nurtures the development of child-to-child and parent-to-parent support systems. Ronald McDonald House in New York City is the largest facility of its type in the world. The House can accommodate 83 families, and it is filled to capacity almost every night. The House's location in Manhattan, in close proximity to 12 major cancer treatment centers, draws children and families from across the country and the world, as well as from the metropolitan New York City area."	New York	4	0	0	10170	RonaldMcDonaldHouseOfNewYork.jpg
Room to Grow	"Founded in 1998, the mission of Room to Grow is to enrich the lives of babies born into poverty throughout their critical first three years of development. Room to Grow's program provides parents raising babies in poverty with one-on-one parenting support and essential baby items throughout their children's critical first three years of life. Parents expecting a baby are referred to Room to Grow by selected prenatal programs assisting low-income families. Upon their referral, parents visit Room to Grow's warm and inviting space once every three months from just before the birth of the baby until their child turns three. During their one-on-one appointments with our staff clinicians, typically lasting two hours, parents receive developmental information, customized support, and all of the needed baby items to ensure a healthy and secure start for their child."	New Jersey	21	0	0	10171	RoomToGrow.jpg
Save the Children	"Save the Children, founded in 1932, is the leading independent organization creating real and lasting change for children in need in the United States and around the world. Save the Children's unique self-help approach to relief, recovery and ongoing development has nurtured the seeds of hope for millions of children and their families. Our programs focus on the areas of: economic opportunities; education; emergencies; protection; health; hunger and malnutrition; and U.S. literacy and nutrition. We work in more than 50 countries, including the United States. We serve 48 million children and many others working to save and improve children's lives, including parents, community members, local organizations and government agencies."	National (U.S.)	6	1	1	10106	SaveTheChildren.jpg
Special Olympics	"Special Olympics is an international organization that changes lives by promoting understanding, acceptance and inclusion between people with and without intellectual disabilities. Through year-round sports training and athletic competition and other related programming for more than 2.5 million children and adults with intellectual disabilities in more than 180 countries, Special Olympics has created a model community that celebrates people's diverse gifts. Founded in 1968 by Eunice Kennedy Shriver, Special Olympics provides people with intellectual disabilities continuing opportunities to realize their potential, develop physical fitness, demonstrate courage and experience joy and friendship."	Pennsylvania	15	0	0	10172	SpecialOlympics.jpg
Starlight Children's Foundation NY/NJ/CT	"Starlight Children's Foundation NY*NJ*CT helps seriously ill children and their families cope with their pain, fear and isolation through entertainment, education and family activities. Starlight brings together experts from pediatric health care, technology and entertainment to create programs that educate, entertain and inspire seriously ill children. Whether it's finding friends online, learning more about a disease, or just spending time together as a family, Starlight's programs help children and families cope with the challenges they face daily. We are proud to say that this past year, our programs benefited more than 275,000 children and their family members in the tri-state area."	New York	8	0	0	10173	StarlightChildrensFoundation.jpg
Susan G. Komen for the Cure	"Nancy G. Brinker promised her dying sister, Susan G. Komen, she would do everything in her power to end breast cancer forever. In 1982, that promise became Susan G. Komen for the Cure and launched the global breast cancer movement. Today, Susan G. Komen for the Cure is the world's largest grassroots network of breast cancer survivors and activists fighting to save lives, empower people, ensure quality care for all and energize science to find the cures. Thanks to events like the Komen Race for the Cure, we have invested more than $1.9 billion to fulfill our promise, becoming the largest source of nonprofit funds dedicated to the fight against breast cancer in the world."	National (U.S.)	7	1	1	10107	SusanGKormanForTheCure.jpg
Teaching Matters	"For the past 15 years, Teaching Matters has led the way in the development and implementation of school-level educational innovations made possible by technology in the largest urban school system in America. Partnering with foundations, frontline educators, content experts, and technologists, we pursue a new standard for student success; one that strikes a balance between core academic and 21st century skills and prepares students for their futures. Each day, Teaching Matters works side by side with classroom educators. As such, we are uniquely situated to observe the real constraints that prevent schools from preparing students for success in the digital age. By focusing development to address the specific constraints and challenges of real classrooms, we improve the likelihood that schools will adopt innovations necessary to meet the needs of today's students."	Arizona	21	0	0	10174	TeachingMatters.jpg
The Children's Aid Society	"Founded in 1853, The Children's Aid Society (CAS) works to ensure the physical and emotional well-being of children and families, and to provide each child with the support and opportunities needed to become a happy, healthy and productive adult. CAS fills the gaps between what children deserve and what life has dealt them. We have been serving children for more than 150 years, a longevity that is a testament to our ability to adapt to the always changing needs of today's youth. Today CAS serves more than 150,000 children and their families at more than 45 sites throughout New York City."	Arkansas	15	0	1	10126	TheChildrensAidSociety.jpg
The Children's Health Fund	"Founded in 1987, the Children's Health Fund (CHF) is committed to providing comprehensive health care to the nation's most medically underserved children and their families through the development and support of innovative primary care medical programs and the promotion of guaranteed access to appropriate health care for all children. CHF is dedicated to meeting the complex and challenging health needs of underserved children. Children's Health Fund realizes this mission through the energy and talent of our dedicated team of doctors, nurses, psychologists, social workers, nutritionists, and other clinical and support staff and our partnerships with esteemed academic medical centers."	National (U.S.)	19	0	1	10119	TheChildrensHealthFund.png
The Fresh Air Fund	"Since 1877, The Fresh Air Fund has provided free summer vacations in the country to more than 1.7 million New York City children from disadvantaged communities. Each year, thousands of children visit volunteer host families in 13 states and Canada through the Friendly Town Program or attend Fresh Air Fund camps. In addition to the Friendly Town Program, each summer, 3,000 children enjoy themselves at one of the five Fresh Air camps in upstate New York. We also offer a career awareness program which focuses on expanding the education and career options of New York City adolescents."	Idaho	4	0	0	10151	TheFreshAirFund.jpg
The Parent-Child Home Program	The Parent-Child Home Program's National Center strives to ensure that families in communities across the country have access to The Parent-Child Home Program. The National Center assists communities in developing Parent-Child Home Program replications and expanding existing sites. The Center works to increase public awareness about the importance of early parent-child verbal interaction and works with public officials to increase the availability of public funds that can be utilized to support Parent-Child Home Program replications around the country.	Nebraska	15	0	0	10168	TheParent-ChildHomeProgram.jpg
The Perlman Music Program	"Founded in 1993, the Perlman Music Program (PMP) welcomes young musicians of rare and special talent into a richly supportive musical community. Through intensive summer programs, year-round mentoring, and on occasion, an international study or performance tour, the program offers unparalleled musical training for students, ages 12 to 30, who play the violin, viola, cello, bass and piano. With a faculty led by Itzhak Perlman and comprising some of the most gifted musical talents of our time, the Program offers an artistic and personal experience that changes students' lives forever. PMP seeks to ensure that the very best musicians can take advantage of this opportunity, regardless of their economic background or financial means."	New Jersey	22	0	0	10169	ThePerlmanMusicProgram.jpg
United Sates Fund for UNICEF	"The United States Fund for UNICEF was founded in 1947 to support the work of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) by raising funds for its programs and increasing awareness of the challenges facing the world's children. The oldest of 37 national committees for UNICEF worldwide, we are part of a global effort to save, protect and improve children's lives. Every moment of every day, UNICEF is on the ground providing lifesaving help for children in need. We provide families with clean water and sanitation, we vaccinate against childhood illness, and we help protect children against malaria. We provide nourishment to fight malnutrition, and we care for children affected by AIDS. We protect children from abuse, and we give them an education. We are here to make sure that all children lead a healthy, humane, and dignified life."	National (U.S.)	13	0	1	10113	UnitedStatesFundForUNICEF.jpg
Voices Against Brain Cancer	"Our mission is to find a cure for brain cancer by advancing scientific research, increasing awareness within the medical community and supporting patients, their families and caregivers afflicted with this devastating disease."	National (U.S.)	11	0	1	10111	VoicesAgainstBrainCancer.jpg
World Childhood Foundation	"The mission of World Childhood Foundation is to defend the rights of the child and to promote better living conditions for vulnerable and exploited children at risk all over the world. World Childhood Foundation wants to give all children the opportunity to develop into strong, secure and responsible human beings. Childhood was founded in 1999 by H.M. Queen Silvia of Sweden, who felt a compelling need to address the social, emotional and material poverty of children around the world. Over the last five years the organizations has grown to support more than 100 programs in 14 countries. The Foundation´s offices are found in Stockholm/Sweden, Sao Paulo/Brazil, New York/USA and München/Berlin Germany. The Childhood USA foundation follows the charter of the global foundation in Sweden in that it has as its primary focus to raise awareness of children at risk for abuse and exploitation, and to create an environment away from harm and neglect."	Arizona	22	0	0	10175	World Childhood Foundation.jpg
World Vision	"World Vision is a Christian humanitarian organization dedicated to working with children, families and their communities worldwide to reach their full potential by tackling the causes of poverty and injustice. Motivated by our faith in Jesus Christ, World Vision serves alongside the poor and oppressed as a demonstration of God's unconditional love for all people. World Vision serves all people, regardless of religion, race, ethnicity, or gender."	National (U.S.)	2	1	1	10102	WorldVision.jpg
Wounded Warrior Project	"The mission of Wounded Warrior Project is to honor and empower wounded warriors. Our purpose is: to raise awareness and enlist the public's aid for the needs of severely injured service men and women; to help severely injured service members aid and assist each other; and to provide unique, direct programs and services to meet the needs of severely injured service members."	National (U.S.)	14	0	1	10114	WoundedWarriorProject.jpg
Young Audiences	"Founded in 1952, Young Audiences (YA) works to help make the arts an essential part of young people's education. YA advances the artistic and educational development of youngsters by bringing them together with professional artists of all disciplines to learn, create and participate in the arts. This year, YA's network of 30 affiliates and 4,600 artists reached seven million children in nearly 7,000 schools with 16,300 performance demonstrations, 60,000 workshops and 3,240 teacher services. YA and its affiliates are engaged in several network projects, including Arts for Learning Lessons, MetLife Dance for Life, and Arts for Learning Interactive Media."	Arizona	23	0	0	10176	YoungAudiences.jpg
